Evidence:

[E1] Jackson Shuttleworth on "Behind the product: Duolingo streaks | Jackson Shuttleworth (Group PM, Retention Team)'":
Lenny Rachitsky: Some people might be hearing this and be like, Duolingo streaks, what's the big deal? There's other people that are like, holy, I want to learn everything I can possibly learn about Duolingo streaks, so many companies are trying to copy what you've learned from this. Give people a sense of the impact that this one feature has had on Duolingo's success and growth.
Jackson Shuttleworth: And this is not just the subjective retention PM talking, I think this is our biggest feature, with the exception of the lessons. And I think it's actually [inaudible 00:07:24] start that. Streaks are a great engagement hack. I'm of the opinion that any team, any app out there can introduce a streak, and if you figure it out, it probably works to retain users, but at the core, you have to have an app that people want to use, and people really like using Duolingo. It's fun, it's delightful, you learn something. And so, it allows us to layer an engagement mechanic on top of that the streak is really powerful. So, it ships a disgusting amount of DAUs, again, it is one of our golden geese. And again, what's cool is that, you look at notifications, notifications for Duolingo is massive. Us sending better, whether it's copy or timing, so many of our notifications work because they reference the streak, because users care about the streak. (00:08:10): And so, not only is it itself, us iterating on the streak a huge driver of DAUs, but it's also something that enables other really high valuable features. I was looking up some stats before I came on, and it's pretty crazy. So, we have right now over 9 million users with a year plus streak.

[E2] Jackson Shuttleworth on "Behind the product: Duolingo streaks | Jackson Shuttleworth (Group PM, Retention Team)'":
Lenny Rachitsky: It makes sense to me. Okay, so lets get into the motherload of learnings from the journey of streaks. So, the first version went from XP to one lesson, talk about the key lessons, insights, and also wrong turns along the way to what we see today.
Jackson Shuttleworth: Duolingo has very much, has a strong test it philosophy, we're willing to test a lot of different... Honestly, we'd much rather test it than debate it for days and days. So, we actually followed up this experiment with, and this is a little bit later, with hey, what if we make it even easier to extend your streak? And so, we actually tested, hey, if you do one exercise, just one exercise in a lesson will extend your streak. A lot of the insight was good, you look at the funnel, hey, there's a lot of users who are starting but not finishing lessons, they're not extending your streak, the loss aversion doesn't kick in, they don't come back... So, this followed that train of thought. What we realized when we ran this experiment is DAUs moved not one bit. And what we were doing by... And if we go back to unit of measure, we had dumbed down the unit of... Nobody thinks about, oh, I just want to come do one question on Duolingo, nobody thinks about that. (00:16:05): So, we had a less clear unit of measure that we were basing our streak around, and the users that we were capturing with our streak, you come, you do one or two questions on Duolingo, then you leave, were the least engaged users imaginable. And so, I think that's something also to think about as you're building your streak, is like what is the user that you're solving for? So, not only what is the habit that you're building for, but what is the level of commitment, and that was an example where we over indexed on a type of user who we honestly just weren't going to keep, that was a very easy shutdown decision.

---

Question: How does Duolingo use streaks to improve retention?

Answer using only the evidence above, citing [E1], [E2].